
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# MatchIt: Nonparametric Preprocessing for Parametric Causal Inference <img src="man/figures/logo.png" align="right" width="150"/>

## [![CRAN_Status_Badge](https://img.shields.io/cran/v/MatchIt?color=952100)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=MatchIt) [![CRAN_Downloads_Badge](https://cranlogs.r-pkg.org/badges/MatchIt?color=952100)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=MatchIt)

### Overview

`MatchIt` provides a simple and straightforward interface to various
methods of matching for covariate balance in observational studies.
Matching is one way to reduce confounding and model dependence when
estimating treatment effects. Several matching methods are available,
including nearest neighbor matching, optimal pair matching, optimal full
matching, generalized full matching, genetic matching, exact matching,
coarsened exact matching, cardinality matching, and subclassification,
some of which rely on functions from other R packages. A variety of
methods to estimate propensity scores for propensity score matching are
included. Below is an example of the use of `MatchIt` to perform
Mahalanobis distance matching with replacement and assess balance:

``` r
library("MatchIt")
data("lalonde", package = "MatchIt")

# 1:1 nearest neighbor matching with replacement on 
# the Mahalanobis distance
m.out <- matchit(treat ~ age + educ + race + married + 
                   nodegree + re74 + re75, 
                 data = lalonde, distance = "mahalanobis",
                 replace = TRUE)
```

Printing the `MatchIt` object provides details of the kind of matching
performed.

``` r
m.out
```

    #> A `matchit` object
    #>  - method: 1:1 nearest neighbor matching with replacement
    #>  - distance: Mahalanobis - number of obs.: 614 (original), 264 (matched)
    #>  - target estimand: ATT
    #>  - covariates: age, educ, race, married, nodegree, re74, re75

We can check covariate balance for the original and matched samples
using `summary()`:

``` r
#Checking balance before and after matching:
summary(m.out)
```

    #> 
    #> Call:
    #> matchit(formula = treat ~ age + educ + race + married + nodegree + 
    #>     re74 + re75, data = lalonde, distance = "mahalanobis", replace = TRUE)
    #> 
    #> Summary of Balance for All Data:
    #>            Means Treated Means Control Std. Mean Diff. Var. Ratio eCDF Mean eCDF Max
    #> age              25.8162       28.0303         -0.3094     0.4400    0.0813   0.1577
    #> educ             10.3459       10.2354          0.0550     0.4959    0.0347   0.1114
    #> raceblack         0.8432        0.2028          1.7615          .    0.6404   0.6404
    #> racehispan        0.0595        0.1422         -0.3498          .    0.0827   0.0827
    #> racewhite         0.0973        0.6550         -1.8819          .    0.5577   0.5577
    #> married           0.1892        0.5128         -0.8263          .    0.3236   0.3236
    #> nodegree          0.7081        0.5967          0.2450          .    0.1114   0.1114
    #> re74           2095.5737     5619.2365         -0.7211     0.5181    0.2248   0.4470
    #> re75           1532.0553     2466.4844         -0.2903     0.9563    0.1342   0.2876
    #> 
    #> Summary of Balance for Matched Data:
    #>            Means Treated Means Control Std. Mean Diff. Var. Ratio eCDF Mean eCDF Max Std. Pair Dist.
    #> age              25.8162       25.5405          0.0385     0.6531    0.0466   0.1892          0.4827
    #> educ             10.3459       10.4270         -0.0403     1.1649    0.0077   0.0378          0.1963
    #> raceblack         0.8432        0.8432          0.0000          .    0.0000   0.0000          0.0000
    #> racehispan        0.0595        0.0595          0.0000          .    0.0000   0.0000          0.0000
    #> racewhite         0.0973        0.0973          0.0000          .    0.0000   0.0000          0.0000
    #> married           0.1892        0.1784          0.0276          .    0.0108   0.0108          0.0276
    #> nodegree          0.7081        0.7081          0.0000          .    0.0000   0.0000          0.0000
    #> re74           2095.5737     1788.6941          0.0628     1.5707    0.0311   0.1730          0.2494
    #> re75           1532.0553     1087.7420          0.1380     2.1244    0.0330   0.0865          0.2360
    #> 
    #> Sample Sizes:
    #>               Control Treated
    #> All            429.       185
    #> Matched (ESS)   34.19     185
    #> Matched         79.       185
    #> Unmatched      350.         0
    #> Discarded        0.         0

At the top is balance for the original sample. Below that is balance in
the matched sample. Smaller values for the balance statistics indicate
better balance. (In this case, fairly good balance was achieved, but
other matching methods should be tried). We can plot the standardized
mean differences in a Love plot for a clean, visual display of balance
across the sample:

``` r
#Plot balance
plot(summary(m.out))
```

<img src="man/figures/README-unnamed-chunk-5-1.png" alt="Love plot of balance before and after matching." style="display: block; margin: auto;" />

Although much has been written about matching theory, most of the theory
relied upon in `MatchIt` is described well in [Ho, Imai, King, and
Stuart (2007)](https//:doi.org/10.1093/pan/mpl013), [Stuart
(2010)](https://doi.org/10.1214/09-STS313), and [Greifer and Stuart
(2021)](https://doi.org/10.1093/epirev/mxab003). The *Journal of
Statistical Software* article for `MatchIt` can be accessed
[here](https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v042.i08), though note that some
options have changed, so the `MatchIt` reference pages and included
vignettes should be used for understanding the functions and methods
available. Further references for individual methods are present in
their respective help pages. The `MatchIt`
[website](https://kosukeimai.github.io/MatchIt/) provides access to
vignettes and documentation files.

### Citing `MatchIt`

Please cite `MatchIt` when using it for analysis presented in
publications, which you can do by citing the *Journal of Statistical
Software* article below:

Ho, D. E., Imai, K., King, G., & Stuart, E. A. (2011). MatchIt:
Nonparametric Preprocessing for Parametric Causal Inference. *Journal of
Statistical Software*, 42(8).
[doi:10.18637/jss.v042.i08](https://doi.org/10.18637/jss.v042.i08)

This citation can also be accessed using `citation("MatchIt")` in R. For
reproducibility purposes, it is also important to include the version
number for the version used.

### Installation

To download and install the latest stable version of `MatchIt` from
CRAN, run the following:

``` r
install.packages("MatchIt")
```

To install a development version, which may have a bug fixed or a new
feature, run the following:

``` r
install.packages("pak") #If not yet installed

pak::pkg_install("ngreifer/MatchIt")
```

This will require R to compile C++ code, which might require additional
software to be installed on your computer. If you need the development
version but canâ€™t compile the package, ask the maintainer for a binary
version of the package.

### Questions and Bug Reports

If you have questions about `MatchIt` or want to submit a bug report,
please do so using the GitHub [issues
page](https://github.com/kosukeimai/MatchIt/issues) for the package.
Suggestions for new features and kind words of support are encouraged as
well. Remember this software is free and developed by volunteers.
